_Source:_ [_Time Settings Guide_](https://courses.theartoftrading.com/courses/take/pine-script-mastery/texts/51210192-time-settings-guide)

## Enable fullscreen

INPUT.SESSION:
input.session() is used for checking if a bar falls within or outside of a certain time of day (intraday) regardless of the date. The timezone is by default the same timezone as the Exchange the instrument is traded on. So for US stocks this function will be in New York time by default, but Australian stocks will be in Syndey time etc.

That's why this function rarely matches up with your Chart timezone if you set your Chart to your home timezone and trade a lot of global markets.

You can also add ":1234567" to specify the days of the week. 1 = Sunday, so if you add :23456 onto your session input it will only check on weekdays.

## Examples:

input.session(defval="00:00-01:00") - this will create a time session window between midnight and 1AM in the Exchange timezone.

input.session(defval="00:00-01:00 +1000") - this will create a time session window between midnight and 1AM in UTC+10 timezone.

input.session(defval="00:00-01:00 America/New_York") - this will create a time session window between midnight and 1AM in NY timezone.

input.session(defval="00:00-01:00 America/New_York:23456") - this will create a time session window between midnight and 1AM in NY timezone only on weekdays.

input.session(defval="00:00-01:00:23456") - this will create a time session window between midnight and 1AM in the Exchange timezone, but only on weekdays.

## How to Use:

Checking if a bar falls within this session is a little tricky compared to timestamps. The code looks like this:

InSession(sess) => na(time(timeframe.period, sess)) == false

InSession(sess) is a custom function. To use it you'd pass your time input into it, like this:

mySessionInput = input.session(defval="00:00-01:00")

bool isInSession = InSession(mySessionInput)

if isInSession
// this bar is inside the time session
else
// else it is not.

## INPUT.TIME:

input.time() is similar to Session except it includes a date and only a single time field. This input is not a time session but rather a UNIX timestamp. A UNIX timestamp is a universal way for all computer software to easily identify the date & time, and it's used in all programming languages.

A UNIX timestamp is equal to how many milliseconds have passed since 1st January 1970 UTC.

So to check if a bar prints BEFORE/AFTER a certain date you would use this function.

To check if a bar prints within a specific date range, you'd need to use two input.time() functions and check if the bar's 'time' variable is >= TimeInput1 and <= TimeInput2.

You can specify a timezone in this input by adding "+1000" for UTC+10 for example. Or you can use timezone strings.

There is a list of global Timezone Strings on Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones

Examples:
input.time(defval=timestamp("14 Dec 2023 01:00")) - this will create a 'timestamp' at 14th December 23 at 1AM Exchange time.

input.time(defval=timestamp("14 Dec 2023 01:00 +1000")) - this will create a 'timestamp' at 14th December 23 at 1AM UTC+10.

input.time(defval=timestamp("14 Dec 2023 01:00 Australia/Sydney")) - this will create a 'timestamp' at 14th December 23 at 1AM Sydney time.

## How to Use:

Since input.time is a timestamp and the inbuilt 'time' variable is also a timestamp, and both are integers, it's very easy to check the bar's time against them.

myTimeInput1 = input.time(defval=timestamp("14 Dec 2023 01:00"))

myTimeInput2 = input.time(defval=timestamp("15 Dec 2023 01:00"))

isInsideDateTime = time >= myTimeInput1 and time <= myTimeInput2

isOutsideDateTime = time < myTimeInput1 or time > myTimeInput2

isBeforeDateTime = time < myTimeInput1

isAfterDateTime = time > myTimeInput2

### FINAL NOTES:

There is no difference between GMT and UTC. Some countries call it UTC, some call it GMT, but they're the same. UTC+10 is the same as GMT+10.

There's some more info on this official Pine Script documentation page about time and timezones if you'd like to dig deeper: https://www.tradingview.com/pine-script-docs/en/v5/concepts/Time.html#time-zones
